OOD RStudio & R package management documentation update (#426)
hpcleuven/VscDocumentation: source/leuven/services/openondemand.rst

RStudio Server
--------------

This interactive app allows you to run an RStudio session on the cluster. 
In the 'Toolchain year and R version' drop-down menu, you can control the R installation
that will be used for this session (e.g. the `R/4.2.2-foss-2022b` module).
Additionally, the R-bundle-CRAN and R-bundle-Bioconductor modules can be loaded 
on top of the base R module to provide easy access to hundreds of preinstalled packages.

It is also possible to use locally installed R packages with RStudio, see :ref:`R package management<r_package_management_standard_lib>`. 

> While the use of RStudio projects is also available within RStudio, loading such project may affect your module library paths as well as your personal R library path.
> We therefore recommend to only use RStudio projects with `renv <https://rstudio.github.io/renv/articles/renv.html>`__, ensuring a completely isolated library for your project.

Reviewer: I think the following formulation will be easier to follow:
```suggestion
RStudio furthermore allows to create RStudio projects to manage your
R environments. When doing so, we recommend to select the
`renv <https://rstudio.github.io/renv/articles/renv.html>`_ option
to ensure a completely independent R environment. Without `renv`,
loading an RStudio project may lead to incomplete R library paths.
```

> For more information on how to use RStudio, check out the `official documentation <https://docs.rstudio.com/>`__.

Reviewer: https://docs.rstudio.com redirects to https://docs.posit.com and it looks like it would be better to link to a more RStudio-specific page on that website:
```suggestion
For more information on how to use RStudio, check out the `official documentation <https://docs.posit.co/ide/user/>`__.
```

RStudio Server
--------------

This interactive app allows you to run an RStudio session on the cluster. 

> In the 'Toolchain year and R version' drop-down menu, you can control the R installation

Author: I agree that for module <names/version> it is nice to have it with back-quotes as it makes things easier to spot in a text and copy.

that will be used for this session (e.g. the `R/4.2.2-foss-2022b` module).
Additionally, the R-bundle-CRAN and R-bundle-Bioconductor modules can be loaded 
on top of the base R module to provide easy access to hundreds of preinstalled packages.

It is also possible to use locally installed R packages with RStudio, see :ref:`R package management<r_package_management_standard_lib>`. 
RStudio furthermore allows to create RStudio projects to manage your

> R environments. When doing so, we recommend to select the

Reviewer 2: `R` and everywhere else perhaps?
We also have to double check this within our team perhaps, and across other pages. 
E.g. Python is not typeset as `Python`; so maybe the same also applies to R (or `R` ;-) )

Author: I think this change won't improve readability. Back-quotes should be reserved for code snippets and perhaps explicit module names. But to back quote every single instance of `R` is a bit over kill. We should also start doing this for `RStudio`, `MATLAB`, `Python` etc. I personally think leaving software names in text as they are and only put back-quotes around code that should jump out so it is easier to find back and perhaps copy by the user.

RStudio Server
--------------

This interactive app allows you to run an RStudio session on the cluster. 
This R session makes use of the R/4.2.2-foss-2022b module. 
Additionally, the R-bundle-CRAN and R-bundle-Bioconductor modules can be loaded 
on top of the base R to provide easy access to hundreds of preinstalled packages.

You can use your own personal R libraries with Studio, see :ref:`R package management<r_package_management_standard_lib>`. 
While the use of R projects is also available within RStudio, loading such project may affect your module library paths as well as your personal R library path.

> We therefore recommend to only use R projects with renv, ensuring a completely isolated library for your project.

Author: The use of R projects is actually best practice and we really shouldn't encourage against it. The whole point of a project is to create a separate work environment for your project. From my previous testing, projects that use renv work well with RStudio. R projects are also not something every R user will be using, those that do use them are typically more experienced users. I think it is therefore better to inform them on the correct way of using R projects.

> We therefore recommend to only use R projects with renv, ensuring a completely isolated library for your project.

Reviewer: (In the meantime we agreed that this should be reformulated to make clear that using "RStudio Projects" (not "R Projects") is fine provided that the user ticks the "use renv for this project" option.)

For more information on how to use RStudio, check out the `official documentation <https://docs.rstudio.com/>`__.

The use is very similar to regular RStudio.

> It is recommended to install packages in a folder on your ``$VSC_DATA`` instead of the default location though,

Reviewer: indeed, this is already touched upon on that other page and that page is already referenced here

  You will also notice that you cannot use the same way of navigating after this.
  Another solution is to click the three dots on the right (...) and enter your path.
- The 'Tools-Install packages' interface does not allow you to select any other path than the default in your ``$VSC_HOME``.
  It is recommended to use the ``install.packages()`` function instead.
- RStudioServer will by default store the RStudio cache in ``$VSC_HOME/.local/share/rstudio``.
  This cache can get very large, and cause you to exceed the quota of your home directory.

>   To avoid this, you can redirect this cache to your scratch directory by setting the ``$XDG_DATA_HOME``

Reviewer 2: In section 7.3.2, we are recommending the users to set `XDG_DATA_HOME` to somewhere in their data folder! Clearly, this will be confusing for the users.
Each of these two choices have pros and cons; hence, I recommend to make a decision within our team and fix this in this page coherently.

Author: I am personally leaning towards advising scratch, especially for R users as the RStudio cache can get very large and may unknowingly occupy a large part of someone's data storage. We can definitely discuss this with the team.

Author: Maxime proposed a nice compromise. To stick with `XDG_DATA_HOME=$VSC_DATA/.local/share`. But also for RStudio specifically, so inform the users about some default settings to not by default save the RSession when RStudio is closed. This to avoid the RStudio Cache from unknowingly filling up a good chunk of the user's data directory.
What do you think @moravveji ?

Reviewer 2: This is a good idea. If we manage to change the RStudio default behavior (not saving a closed session), then we can stick to forwarding the caches to VSC_DATA using `XDG_DATA_HOME` consistently across this page.
But, the question is whether we can change the RStudio default behavior.

I looked up `/apps/leuven/rocky8/icelake/2022b/software/RStudio-Server/2022.07.2+576-foss-2022b-Java-11-R-4.2.2/R/ServerOptions.R`, and there I find:

```R
# set save defaults for high-performance (only if the administrator
# or user hasn't set them explicitly already)

if (is.null(getOption("save.defaults")))
   options(save.defaults=list(ascii=FALSE, compress=FALSE))

if (is.null(getOption("save.image.defaults")))
   options(save.image.defaults=list(ascii=FALSE, safe=TRUE, compress=FALSE))
```
But, this is too vague to me; the comment line is also ambiguous and I wonder if this is what we are looking after. Furthermore, the passed values are mainly `FALSE` which do not give extra room to turn off auto-saving (if that is what these two lines mean).

So, any other idea to turn off auto saving of sessions?

Reviewer 2: In RStudio, it is 'easy' to override the defaults and suppress loading of previous sessions upon startup. It is just under 'Tools -> Global Options -> General -> RSessions'.

However, I looked up the source code for the equivalent of these, so that we can perhaps modify these defaults in `Options.R` and/or `ServerOptions.R`. But, so far, I have not spotted from where they actually come from. Can you perhaps ask this from the Posit support?

  You will also notice that you cannot use the same way of navigating after this.
  Another solution is to click the three dots on the right (...) and enter your path.
- The 'Tools-Install packages' interface does not allow you to select any other path than the default in your ``$VSC_HOME``.
  It is recommended to use the ``install.packages()`` function instead.
- RStudioServer will by default store the RStudio cache in ``$VSC_HOME/.local/share/rstudio``.
  This cache can get very large, and cause you to exceed the quota of your home directory.
  To avoid this, you can redirect this cache to your data directory by setting the ``$XDG_DATA_HOME``
  variable in your ``~/.bashrc``:

  .. code-block:: bash

    echo "export XDG_DATA_HOME=$VSC_DATA/.local/share" >> ~/.bashrc

> - Additionally, it is advised to change the default behaviour of RStudio to not restore .RData

Reviewer 2: `.RData` in two places

  into the workspace on start up and to never Save the workspace to .RData on exit.

>   You can do this via the RStudio interface:

Reviewer 2: ... via the RStudio interface by going to '...'. 
please add the terminating point to the sentence
